{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\'01;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Carleton University\
Department of Systems and Computer Engineering\
SYSC 3303 - Real-Time Concurrent Systems - Winter 2016\
\
Assignment 5\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Three logical processes P, Q, and S have the following characteristics: P: period 3, required execution time 1; Q: period 6, required execution time 3, S: period 18, required execution time 2.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Show how these processes can be scheduled using the rate monotonic scheduling algorithm.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Show how a cyclic executive could be constructed to implement the three logical processes.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Consider three processes P, Q, and S. P has a period of 100 ms in which it requires 15 ms of processing. The corresponding values for Q and S are (5, 1) and (25, 10) respectively.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What is the processor utilization of P, Q, and S?\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If the processes were scheduled by a cyclic executive, would they meet their deadlines? Explain your answer.\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	c	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If the processes were scheduled using the rate monotonic scheduling algorithm, would they meet their deadlines? Explain your answer.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The process set shown here is not schedulable using the Liu/Layland utilization test but does meet all its deadlines. Explain why. 
\f1\fs26 Process	      Period	   Execution Time\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  P1		70		30\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  P2		40		10\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	8	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  P3		20		 5\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	9	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Work Products\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A \'93README.txt\'94 file explaining the names of your file(s), software used, etc.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A file or files containing solutions to the above questions 1, 2, and 3. Hand-drawn scanned diagrams are acceptable, as long as they are neatly drawn and your handwriting is legible, and the software required to view them is present in the lab.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Reminder\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 The TAs will mark your assignments in the lab environment. It is your responsibility to ensure that any software required for viewing your files is also present in the lab.
\b \
Submitting Assignments\

\b0 Assignments are to be submitted electronically using the assignment \'93submit\'94 program. Emailed submissions will not be accepted. See the course outline for the procedure to follow if illness causes you to miss the deadline.\
Due: Friday, April 1st at midngiht SHARP!}